Last we have to do inside of our event listener is make sure that whenever a user presses on the appropriate
key we change the movements of the ball.
So how are we going to do that.
Essentially what we're going to do is take a look at the current velocity of the ball.
When I use the word velocity that means the speed in which the ball is moving so we're going to take
the velocity of the ball and then we're going to update it or add in some additional velocity in the
up down left or right directions to change the velocity of a shape.
We have to get another object from the matter j ust library.
So I'm going to go up to the very top of the file where we are currently D structuring a couple of properties
we're going to d structure another property called body like so this body object has some different
functions on it that allow us to update the different properties inside of a shape so he can use it
to change the dimensions of a shape it's position velocity its rotation and so on.
Now that we've got that body object let's go back down to our event handler down here.
We're going to first take a look at our ball and get its current velocity.
So I'm going to say const X and Y with some curly braces because we are doing some deep structuring
here.
Ball dot velocity so X and Y are going to be the current velocity of the ball.
Let's do a quick console log and to see what those values are printed out as now go back over refresh
and I'll refresh once again and right after I refresh I get a press on the w key which should trigger
that code to go essentially right here like go or print out the console log in refresh and then press
a couple of times and we can see the console log of the x and y values so we'll see the very first console
log right here as the ball was falling down.
We had an x coordinate or an x velocity of zero which means that the ball was not moving side to side
at all at the Y value was eight point two three.
Which means the ball was going downwards or it was moving downwards over time once the ball kind of
hit that block right there and started rolling slightly.
We can see that these numbers got very very small until now if I press again.
They're at 0 0 because the ball is not moving at all okay.
So now we've got these values we can use those and add in some additional velocity to either the X or
Y coordinate it's going to take care of moving the ball up first I'll remove the console log and I'll
say body set velocity This is how we update the velocity of a shape we'll say ball and I'm going to
get the same X so we have right now.
So I'll say X is X and remember we can use that key value shortcut.
When those variables are identical to reduce down to just X and then my Why is going to be whatever
the Y currently is minus five.
We are subtracting five here because we want to move the ball in the up direction and move it up.
We want to have a negative velocity so every single time that the user presses on the w key which is
key code eighty seven.
We're going to take whatever the current velocity is we're gonna subtract five to it and set the velocity
to that new y velocity.
Let's now say this and do a quick test of flip back over refresh.
I'm gonna refresh a couple of times until I get a nice column like this right here.
Like lots of space to work with.
I'll press w a couple times and every single time I do the ball moves slightly faster and faster as
every single time I press it.
I'm accelerating five additional or soon I'm adding five units of velocity in the upwards direction
okay.
That looks good so let's now repeat the same process for each of our different directions.
I'm going to copy that set velocity and we'll take care of going right next.
So in this case I'm going to clear out the x and y inside of here if I want to move right I'm gonna
do X of whatever the current x velocity is plus five and the same y and ideally that console log then
to go down I'll delete the council log.
In this case I still want to adjust the y value but to go downwards faster I want to do a plus five
and then to move to the left faster I'm going to do
same y and an x of X minus five.
So again to move to the left we subtract from X all right.
So I'll save this I'm gonna flip back over once again.
Now we should have full control of the ball so I can go to the right left.
I can go up and I can go down as well and that's pretty much it.
Now if this thing feels laggy right now that's totally fine.
You can always try to close your developer console and when you do so you're going to see that the map
or the maze is slightly more responsive and just a little bit less laggy.
It's not a total solution but definitely having your developer console open adds in a little bit more
of a performance penalty.
Now we can easily start to navigate through our maze okay.
So this is looking pretty good but I think that having the gravity turned on is a little bit distracting.
So let's take a quick pause right here.
When we come back the next video we're going to disable gravity inside of our maze which is going to
make controlling that ball just a little bit more easy so quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.